R/hdf5Structure.md, before:

#EEG-HDF5

*EEG-HDF5* is a package to read data created by MATLAB.

##Dependencies

* [HDF5](http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/)
* [Bioconductor](http://www.bioconductor.org/)
* [rhdf5](http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/rhdf5.html)

##Objects
###hdf5Structure
`hdf5Structure` is the only class exposed by EEG. Its structure is dynamically
created according to the structure of the HDF5 file that was used to create it.

`hdf5Structure` objects shouldn't be created with R's built-in `new` method,
instead use the `Hdf5Structure` function.

##Functions and Methods
###Hdf5Structure('file.h5')
####creates a `hdf5Structure` object

`Hdf5Structure` is the main function that is made available through EEG.
The only parameter is a path to a HDF5 file.

	> np <- Hdf5Structure(file)
	> np
	file: file.h5
	groups: noisyParameters
	
`Hdf5Structure` dynamically generates a new instance of `hdf5Structure` whose
fields correspond to the top-level groups of the HDF5 file. In the above
example, `np` was defined according to the file that was passed to
`Hdf5Structure`.

###groups(hdf5Structure)
####shows the groups in the `hdf5Structure` object.
`groups` prints the groups that are in the `hdf5Structure` object.

	> groups(np)
	[1] "noisyParameters"
	
###get.group(hdf5Structure, group)
####returns a group
`get.group` is used to get a group from a `noisyParameter` object. If it is
necessary, it will first evaluate the group.

	> np <- get.group(np, "noisyParameters")
	> np$highPass$highPassFilterCommand
	[1] "EEG1 = pop_eegfiltnew(EEG1, [], 1, 3300, true, [], 0);"
	
The above lines roughly corresponds to
	
	np.highPass.highPassFilterCommand
	
in MATLAB.

Commit message:

groups renamed to entries; get.group renamed to get.entry

R/hdf5Structure.md, after:

#EEG-HDF5

*EEG-HDF5* is a package to read data created by MATLAB.

##Dependencies

* [HDF5](http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/)
* [Bioconductor](http://www.bioconductor.org/)
* [rhdf5](http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/rhdf5.html)

##Objects
###hdf5Structure
`hdf5Structure` is the only class exposed by EEG. Its structure is dynamically
created according to the structure of the HDF5 file that was used to create it.

`hdf5Structure` objects shouldn't be created with R's built-in `new` method,
instead use the `Hdf5Structure` function.

##Functions and Methods
###Hdf5Structure('file.h5')
####creates a `hdf5Structure` object

`Hdf5Structure` is the main function that is made available through EEG.
The only parameter is a path to a HDF5 file.

	> np <- Hdf5Structure(file)
	> np
	file: file.h5
	entries: noisyParameters
	
`Hdf5Structure` dynamically generates a new instance of `hdf5Structure` whose
fields correspond to the top-level entries of the HDF5 file. In the above
example, `np` was defined according to the file that was passed to
`Hdf5Structure`.

###entries(hdf5Structure)
####shows the entries in the `hdf5Structure` object.
`entries` prints the entries that are in the `hdf5Structure` object.

	> entries(np)
	[1] "noisyParameters"
	
###get.entry(hdf5Structure, entry)
####returns a entry
`get.entry` is used to get a entry from a `noisyParameter` object. If it is
necessary, it will first evaluate the entry.

	> np <- get.entry(np, "noisyParameters")
	> np$highPass$highPassFilterCommand
	[1] "EEG1 = pop_eegfiltnew(EEG1, [], 1, 3300, true, [], 0);"
	
The above lines roughly corresponds to
	
	np.highPass.highPassFilterCommand
	
in MATLAB.
